#summary Programming language, technologies and frameworks used.

== Introduction ==
----

EyeSkyHigh is a project that requires a powerful and stable indexed search engine. There are a lot of open-source projects that do just that but, from all the existing ones, Apache's Lucene is the most stable and fast of all.
Lucene was first developed using the Java programming language and, although many parallel projects regarding porting Lucene to other programming languages such as C# have started, its most stable version remains the one written in Java.
Therefore, EyeSkyHigh will use this version, being therefore constrained to using Java for the entire project.


== Java Programming Language ==
----

Java is a programming language originally developed by Sun Microsystems and released in 1995 as a core component of Sun Microsystems' Java platform. The language derives much of its syntax from C and C++ but has a simpler object model and fewer low-level facilities. Java applications are typically compiled to bytecode that can run on any Java virtual machine (JVM) regardless of computer architecture.

For more information, please refer to the [http://java.sun.com/ Java Homepage].


== Apache Lucene ==
----

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

Lucene offers powerful features through a simple API:

===Scalable, High-Performance Indexing===

 * over 20MB/minute on Pentium M 1.5GHz
 * small RAM requirements -- only 1MB heap
 * incremental indexing as fast as batch indexing
 * index size roughly 20-30% the size of text indexed

===Powerful, Accurate and Efficient Search Algorithms===

 * ranked searching -- best results returned first
 * many powerful query types: phrase queries, wildcard queries, proximity queries, range    queries and more
 * fielded searching (e.g., title, author, contents)
 * date-range searching
 * sorting by any field
 * multiple-index searching with merged results
 * allows simultaneous update and searching

===Cross-Platform Solution===

 * Available as Open Source software under the Apache License which lets you use Lucene in both commercial and Open Source programs
 * 100%-pure Java
 * Implementations in other programming languages available that are index-compatible